Hello and welcome, the subject of this lecture is going to be the take damage function of the actor
and how we call it.
Let's dive in and find out all about it.
So in order for us to be able to deal damage to something, we need to actually have some link which
we can hit.
So let's go to our content browser route and bring in one of the BP Chuter characters, because actually
what happens is if you bring in a character into the scene, then automatically unreal is going to make
this character A.I. controlled.
And the ones that spawn at the player starts will be player controlled.
So that's great.
That's exactly the behavior we want.
If I go ahead and hit OPIS.
You'll notice I'm actually in the wrong spawn point.
So maybe I want to delete this second player start by hit up.
Now we'll be in the right location.
There is my enemy.
I can shoot at the enemy.
I get the hit effect.
But obviously I'm not doing any damage.
Not yet anyway.
And doing damage is a two part process.
The first part is sending the damage in.
The second part is receiving it.
And this lecture, we're going to deal with sending damage to the player and the function calls involved
with that.
So the main one that we're going to be looking at is in the actor.
Dot H.
And we're looking for a function call called Take Damage.
And you can see here that is this virtual function here.
It returns a float.
What it's returning is the actual damage applied to the actor, the actual amount that really got applied.
And what goes in is the damage amount, a damage event, which gives us more information about that,
the damage that happened.
We have an instigator.
So that's saying who was the controller responsible for causing this damage?
And then the damage caused, which is what was the actor responsible.
So in this case, it might be a gun or is it saying here the projectile that exploded, the rock that
landed on you in this case, the gun that shot you, is gonna be the actor that was responsible.
So that's take damage.
In a nutshell, most of that should be pretty straightforward for you to put together with the exception
of this damage event structure.
And that's a little bit more complicated.
So let's have a look at this damage event struct and see what can what we do, how is it going to be
composed?
How are we going to put this together?
Now, it's not immediately obvious, but there are actually two subtypes for this damage event.
In practice, you're not going to actually create an EF damage event, but rather you'd be creating
an EF point damage event or you'd be creating an EF radial damage event.
Those are the two main types of damage that exist in Unreal.
You can create more different types of damage for your own custom stuff, like you might have a fire
damage with different parameters.
But in our case, we're interested in the F radial radial and point damaged.
A radial again would be something like a grenade going off, in which case you want to say, okay,
where is the radius?
What's the fall off?
All of those kinds of things?
Where as the point damage is, as it sounds, much more appropriate for things like guns.
So we're going to create an F point damage event and we're going to go and look for the constructor.
Here's the constructor for it and we can see what it's taking in.
It's taken the damage amount again.
So that's a bit of repetition there.
We're having the hit result that caused this point damage to take place.
Then we're having the in shot direction.
Great.
We've already calculated that.
I was thinking a little bit ahead when we did that in the previous lecture.
And then this subclass of damage type.
Now, this can be used to pass more information is actually rather than creating a different damage
event type, you'd probably create a different you damage type.
So you might have a fire type or something like that.
In our case, because we don't need any kind of damage type, we're not doing fire damage or anything
extra like that poison damage.
Then what we're going to do is just pass in a null pointer here instead.
So let's have a go at constructing one of these together.
And then I will let you call that take damage event.
So the first thing to do is to paste in the type, gonna call it the damage event and then we're going
to construct it.
So first of all, the damage amounts.
Well, we don't have one of these for the gun yet.
We don't have how much damage it does.
So we can go ahead and create some information.
They've got a max range already.
We want some more properties in here.
It's gonna be an edit anywhere, which is going to allow us to say float damage.
How much damage do we do on going gonna do a damage of 10.
And then we can use this over in the C plus plus.
So damage is what we're going to pass in is the first argument.
The second one is that hit result.
Well, fortunately, we've got the hit results called hit.
Then the next thing is going to be the shot direction, which we already calculated for emitter at location.
Then we're going to look at the subclass, which is just going to be a no pointer, okay?
So that is done.
The next thing would just be to get hold of the actor that we're trying to damage.
That's fairly straightforward from the hit.
You do hit dot, get actor on here, but you will need to check that this isn't null because we don't
want to end up with a null actor that we're trying to do damage on or we're going to end up crashing.
So your challenge is going to be to call that take damage function, check for the actor being null.
First of all, we don't want a null actor and call take damage and see if you can get it to compile.
Pulls a video and have a go.
OK.
Welcome back.
So we've got to get actor in here.
I'm just going to call this.
I'm going to give this a little variable.
So a actor pointer is gonna be the hit actor.
And we are then going to go ahead and do an F statement in here, basically saying if the hit actor
is not equal to a null pointer, then we're going to go ahead with this hit actor to call the.
Take damage function on it and we're going to do the damage amount in.
Here is the first arguments.
What was the second one?
I'm just going to navigate back to the take damage and have a look.
So the next one is the struct that we've put together this damage event.
Let's put that in second.
Then we're going to have a look at the controller that created this.
Well, that's our controller.
The guns controller is the one doing the damage.
And then this is the instigator was the last parameter in ATAKE damage.
And we probably only wants to construct this struct inside this if actor not equal to null points because
it's not needed.
If we don't have an actor to apply this damage to.
So let's go over and compile and see if this is going to work.
So I got an error in my log.
Let's see what's going on.
Oh, I'm just missing a semicolon.
Well, that's pretty easy.
One to fix after the get actor there.
Let's go and try again.
Cool.
Everything has compiled successfully and we can just go ahead and play and just check that.
Shooting is going to not give us any.
No errors or try and crash.
The engine looks like it's okay.
So we'll move on to the next lecture where we're going to try and receive the damage on this actor here
that we have placed in the level.
See that?